# Tailwind Directives

Directives are custom Tailwind-specific at-rules you can use in your CSS that offer special functionality for Tailwind CSS projects.

- Directives are a part of postcss.

- Postcss applies transformations, with some css as input, this then runs through series of postcss plugins and with given css, it generates a css on other end.

[WIP: Explore More about Postcss and Directives]

Here, in this phase, we created a file inside css/style.css with

```css
.hello {
    color: red
}

/* tailwind directives */
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

Now, we can run this file through postcss and use the tailwind css cli to do that.

Before, make sure that, npm is installed with requried version of node. Use asdf.

``npm i -g tailwindcss-cli`` install globally

To run the postcss:

```sh
# depreciated
# npx tailwindcss-cli ./css/style.css -o build/tailwind.css

npx tailwindcss-cli -i ./css/style.css -o build/tailwind.css
```

Here, we processd a file css/style.css and it gave tailwind.css file after runing with preprocessor of tailwind.


## More about the directives we used:

```css
/* tailwind directives */
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

- **1. Base:** includes basic css things: html, body, button, and basic building blocks

- **2. Components:** includes comopnents css for things like container, responsive, max-width, ..

- **3. Utilities:** utilities css like `pt-<>, m-<>, shadow-<>, grid-clos-<>, ...`

All of the outputs at `./bin` direcory contains the css generated by runing tailwind css preprocessor commands on each of the above directives. [Here](./../bin)

In the ``utilities.css`` we can notice:

```css
.w-min {
  width: -moz-min-content;
  width: min-content
}

.w-max {
  width: -moz-max-content;
  width: max-content
}
```

Above are the vendor prefixes. [CSS Vendor Prefix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/explain-css-vendor-prefixes/)

**Example: Vendor Prefix CSS**

```
.someClass {

    /* Support for Firefox */
    -moz-propertyName: propertyValue;

    /* Support for webkit based browsers 
       (Chrome, Safari, iOS, etc.) */
    -webkit-propertyName: propertyValue;

    /* Support for Opera */
    -o-propertyName: propertyValue;

    /* Support for Edge and Internet Explorer */
    -ms-propertyName: propertyValue;

    /* Standardized property */
    propertyName: propertyValue;
}
```

Vendor Prefix are not the part of tailwind itself, it was generated as a result of file runing through autoprefixer plugin.
